Hey guys! Let's make a landing area
prefab. We'll create a landing area prefab.
We'll be using the flare particle effect,
setting the game to start at dusk, and
then, making the player deploy the flare, although you'll be doing that last bit.
[Does Funny Voice] So, let's make this prefaby thing! So, on the player, we already have this clear area
dude here, which is looking for a clear
area. I think the first thing I'm going
to do is to re-scale this in the Y, to what? 20 meters, 30 meters, 40 meters, 30 meters
let's say, which means I need to offset its
center by, I think 20, no 16 meters,
so it still sits 1 meter off the
ground,
avoiding the grass. Ok perfect! So, that
means that it will be hitting more
tree canopies. So, re-scale your clear area box collider to 30 in the Y size and then 16 Y
offset, so it sits like that, and it'll
still work it'll still find the clear areas.
In fact, it may have less bugs with
regards to missing trees, than before.
Oh, on that topic, why are we missing trees quite frequently. If you've moved
your trees like I have, then look at my Navmesh, you see my trees have moved and
I haven't re-baked the Navmesh, so all of
these holes in the ground are just
wrong. So, this is only to do with
navigation, but while you're here, it's a
good time to re-bake the Navmesh, if
you've moved your trees, remember to do that.
Otherwise, your AI Agent can run
straight through trees, which will look a
bit odd. So, there's a tip for you, I'll leave
that baking in the background. Right!
So, under Prefabs, I want to create a new
prefab for a clear area or for a landing
area, so I'm just going to drag that over
here and rename it Landing Area.
Fantastic! So, if I pop the landing area in the scene, then this is
going to be something that the helicopter
can target. I'm going to make sure that,
that actually sits a meter off the ground, like we want. I think it is? Yep, that's fine!
Ok great! So, we have this landing area. So far, we have
just a collider and a Clear Area Script. We don't want a Clear Area Script on it,
so remove the Clear Area Script from
the Landing Prefab and import the
Particle Effects, the Particle Systems
Package. Now, we can have the whole lot,
if you want. All we're actually looking for is the flare, but I'm going to import the
whole lot. Here it comes, it's going to take a while. It's going to make your project a bit bigger.
We're going mad on project size, in this particular section. So, what I want
to do is I want to add a flare to this
landing area, so one of the easiest ways
to work on the landing area is to
instantiate it, by dragging it into the
scene, and then, we want to create a child object called the flare. So, what we
want is that when the player pops out a
landing area, it has a flare in the middle
of it, and then, later we'll make the
helicopter vector for this position.
So, I'm going to add to this a particle effect, but you don't just add a component,
because we want a complete prefab.
So, if you inspect your standard assets in your
particle systems now, you'll find somewhere that we have a flare. Here it is!
So, let's make that the sub-object of the
landing area. So, this flare prefab... I can
get rid of that other one. So, a common
mistake would be to try and add it as
a particle system, but that won't get the
full prefab. A flare is quite a complex
thing actually, it has smoke and sparks, but it all comes as part of this pack. Ok
cool! So, what I'm going to do now is just
turn the light down to nighttime. So, let's
rotate this around to say 180 degrees, there you go. It's pretty dark now, dusk at least.
And where's my flare? In the wrong place! I'm going to reset the position of the flare, compared to the
landing area. I want it right in the
middle of the landing area. There, that's
pretty good, apart from it needs lifting just
off the ground. Fine! And I'm going to make
the Start Size 5, instead of 0.5. That looks Ok there. So, you get the idea.
If I update the prefab, the landing area prefab now, then
in theory I can drop this prefab back in, and we can instantiate this at run-time. Boom!
There it is! Now, has that worked? The flare will only work when you preview it.
So, if we go to the Game Mode, of course,
then it would be there, but you will only
see it in the Scene View when you actually click on it. Here it is, there's the flare, and there is a
collider around this landing area, which is going to give the
helicopter something to vector towards. Perfect, so we have a good landing area
prefab. Now, what I want you to do is to
instantiate that landing area prefab,
3 seconds after the clear area is found,
and ensure the collider is visible
in the Scene View, once it's instantiated. So, go ahead, pause the video, and get that
coming out after the clear area is found.
Cool! Welcome back! So, how are we going to
do that? There's a question for you! So, where do we find the clear area? We find it
over here in clear area, but we send a
message
upwards OnFindClearArea. And one of the things that receives that, at the
higher level, is the player, so that's
where I want to be dealing with it.
We are going to invoke the DropFlare, and we already have the DropFlare method.
It's here that we are going to drop the flare. So, one of the easiest ways to get the flare in,
is just to publicly expose a GameObject
called a flarePrefab, like that, and I like
to immediately go over and find that and
connect it, so that we don't forget it.
Now, if I just search for the word flare, then I'm not finding it. That's strange, why not?
Oh, good question, let me have a look... flare. I don't trust that, because this is
their flare prefab, and we have our own
prefab, which is landing area. So, what I'm
doing is I'm getting confused between
just the flare and the whole
landing area. So, it's actually a naming issue, it's landingAreaPrefab.
See how important naming things is. Build the script back over to
Unity, and then, now we're of course
looking for a landing area. So, if I now
search for landing area, and there you go, simple confusion.
So, there's the landing area prefab, and
of course, the way to instantiate it is the
simple instantiate command. So, we're going to instantiate. We've already put the 3
second delay in, so we're going to Instantiate  the landing area prefab, at the position of the
current player. Now, we need the small
transform.position, small letter, because
we want the instance, and we want to
transform.rotation.
Perfect, so we're going to instantiate this landing area, at the
position and rotation of the player.
Let's make sure it works. Look at the
Hierarchy, there is no landing area in it, at the moment.
Why do I have a flare hanging off me? Ok, if you have a flare hanging off the
player, this is why. That landing area has
had a flare attached to it, because when
I created the landing area, from the
sub-object of the player in a voice down
here, I actually then started modifying
it and then that's modified this guy,
and this should be Clear Area not Landing
Area. So, how do you break a prefab connection,
when you've done that. Well, you go to
GameObject and Break Prefab Instance
like that, and now this is no longer
connected to this landing area.
And then we can fix it, we can put it back to Clear Area, which it should have been.
We can leave the box collider as it is, get
rid of the flare, and add the script back.
Ok, so if you ever do that, you prefab
something, and you get an accidental
connection, it's GameObject, Break Prefab
Instance. Alright! Now, when we play we don't
have this flare hanging off us. We're at dusk, which is pretty cool! It's only
going to get darker. Go and look for somewhere, wait. [Game Character Says] This looks like a pretty good landing area!
I'm going to lay down a flare and call for a HELO. [Ben Starts Talking Again] There's the flare! Cool! There go all the
radio calls, and then, if we look at this, look we have a landing area, there with
smoke coming out. Pretty cool! So, we've
done everything we want to for this
video. We have instantiated landing area, we have a flare; later, we can make the
zombies spawn on this position. And the
helicopter, when it gets close enough, can
give us a call, a one minute call, to say I can see the flare, I'm vectoring to your
position but that's it. We have a pretty
cool set up there, with a landing
area prefab. We've learned about breaking prefabs. I've made several mistakes in this
video and left them in for you, because
it's real. So, congratulations on getting
this far. I hope your landing area is cool.
And actually,
before I go, I was going to go, but I'm going to do one more thing, which is I want to make the
day cycle a little bit faster. I personally am going to just make
things progress a bit faster, than they do. I'm going to go 300 minutes per second. So, watch
this. Actually, I'll go to maximize. If I now maximize on play, we start when it's
pretty dark. He goes and looks for a
landing area,
he deploys, and see how dark it's getting and It's getting dark really quick.
[Character Talks in Background] [Ben Continues to Talk] There's the flare. Now, the flare is much more visible.
Now, the zombies are going to start spawning onto that flare. If you want to put the flare right on
the ground, that's fine. And we're going to have to get the hell out of this area, because it's going to start to get hectic with zombies. So, see you soon.